# release-node-project

Scripts for releasing Node.js-based projects

## Prerequisites

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)
- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

  - To enable [Editor SDK](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/editor-sdks), run

    ```sh
    yarn dlx @yarnpkg/sdks vscode
    ```

    Then in TypeScript file, simultaneously press

    `ctrl` + `shift` + `p`

    and choose option

    `Select TypeScript Version`

    then select value

    `Use Workspace Version`

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)

  - For [E2E Testing](#end-to-end-tests)

## Install Dependencies

To install dependencies, run

```sh
yarn install
```

## Start

To run code from non-built source code, run

```sh
yarn start
```

## Build

To build the source code into transpiled javascript, run

```sh
yarn build
```

## Watch

To automatically rebuild on file changes, run

```sh
yarn watch
```

## Clean

To remove any previously built code, run

```sh
yarn clean
```

## Run

To run transpiled javascript bundles, run:

```sh
yarn run-built
```

or directly with

```sh
node executable.js
```

Or through the `bin` command with

```sh
release-node-project
```

## Lint

to check code for programmatic or stylistic problems, run

```sh
yarn lint
```

To automatically fix lint problems, run

```sh
yarn lint-fix
```

## Test

To test the project for regressions, run

```sh
npm test
```

This will [lint](#lint) the project, then run [unit](#unit-tests) and [e2e](#end-to-end-tests) tests.

Test execution can be configured with the following environment variables:

| Name             | Required | Default | Description                                                                         | Example(s) |
| ---------------- | -------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| TEST_RESULT_NAME | No       |         | If specified, will record test results to the given file name and collect coverage. | unit       |

### Unit Tests

Unit tests are for stateless logic tests on small, contained parts of the code base (ideally not reliant on/mock anything outside their scope), and can be run with

```sh
yarn test-unit
```

_Note_: To run a specific test, execute

```sh
yarn test-unit -t 'test name'
```

With spaces separating describe blocks and test names

### End to End Tests

End to End (E2E) Tests run against the final, distributable executable and are meant to test overarching scenarios of the tool to simulate as close as possible the real interactions and use/edge cases.

E2E tests can be run with

```sh
yarn test:e2e
```

_Note_: To run a specific test, execute

```sh
yarn test-e2e -t 'test name'
```

With spaces separating describe blocks and test names.

The E2E tests reach out to the public GitHub instance. Best practices are to avoid reliance on external/third-party interactions for testing, so [Wiremock](https://wiremock.org/) (as a dynamically created docker container) is used to simulate a GitHub instance.

First, Wiremock must "record" responses from GitHub by acting as a proxy:

```sh
yarn test-e2e-record
```

Then, recordings can be "played back" to run E2E tests without needing to reach out to GitHub:

```sh
yarn test-e2e-playback
```

When run in CI, the `test-e2e-playback` is used to avoid brittleness by reliance on the actual GitHub public server.

## Code Coverage

Code coverage can be generated by running

```sh
yarn test-unit-ci
```

There is no code coverage for [e2e](#end-to-end-tests) tests as those do not run against source code, but transpiled binaries.

To view code coverage in the browser, run

```sh
yarn coverage-view
```

## Upgrade Yarn

To upgrade the version of yarn used in the project, run

```sh
yarn set version latest
```

then [install](#install) to have the change picked up.
